### 8.2.1 Big Theta
Big Theta: $\Theta(F(N))$ , the lower and upper bound of $R(N)$

**The difinition of $\Theta$:** 
 $$R(N)∈Θ(f(N))$$ means that there exists positive constants $k_1$, $k_2$ such that:  
$$k_1⋅f(N)≤R(N)≤k_2⋅f(N)$$ for all values of $N$ greater than some $N_0$​​ (a very large N).


### 8.2.2 Big O
Big O: $O$, the upper bound of $R(N)$ 

**The difinition of $O$**
$$R(N)∈O(f(N))$$ means that there exists positive constants $k_2$​​ such that:  
$$R(N)≤k_2⋅f(N)$$ for all values of $N$ greater than some $N_0$​​ (a very large N).

Big $\Omega$ if opposite to the Big O, $f(n)∈Ω(g(n))⟺g(n)∈O(f(n)).$


### 8.2.3 Summary
$N$ represents the **size** of the input.
For both $\Theta$ and $O$, we care about only the **order of growth**, so $N$ represent a very large number.

$\Theta$ often means more information than $O$ 

$O(1)⊂O(log_n)⊂O(n)⊂O(nlog_n)⊂O(n^2log_n)⊂O(n^3)⊂O(2^n)⊂O(n!)⊂O(n^n)$


Amortized analysis



- Big O is an **upper bound** ("less than or equals")
- Big Omega is a **lower bound** ("greater than or equals")
- Big Theta is both an upper and lower bound ("equals") or **tight bound**
- Big O does NOT mean "worst case". We can still describe worst cases using Big Theta
- Big Omega does NOT mean "best case". We can still describe best cases using Big Theta
- Big O is sometimes colloquially used in cases where Big Theta would provide a more precise statement
- Amortized analysis provides a way to prove the average cost of operations.
- If we chose aia​i​​ such that ΦiΦ​i​​ is never negative and aia​i​​ is constant for all ii, then the amortized cost is an upper bound on the true cost.


Given an algorithm, analyse its best and worst cases, then select one or two appropriate notion from $O$(The upper bound for **worst** case), $\Theta$(The tight bound for **exact** case), and $\Omega$(The lower bound for **best** case).


the Master Theorem: a theorem to analyse complexity of recursive algorithm


If $F(N) \in \Theta(G(N))$, also $F(N)\in O(G(N))$ 

